# ARTIST STATEMENT

This project was a result of all my prior project. It even implemented mechanics from my Cart 253 projects. The goal was to establish a clear game mechanics foundation from the start so the pieces could be laid down before changing the aesthetics.  Using arrays had an immense impact on the time factor and I must thank my teacher for helping me setting them up. The first real step of this project was finding the song. What I wanted was something fast paced and simple enough to keep the player engaged at all times. When I chose Feel Good Inc. I knew I had a sound that had many changes of tempo and also dynamic; perfect for the rhythm game I was aiming to build. I also knew it was a classic song that’s generally well received. I have to say: I must have listened to that song several hundreds of times while building this game, and I’m very amazed of the fact that I still enjoy it. Honestly, after setting up all the cues, I was probably possessed by the band’s soul, because I decided to make the game gorilla themed. I had this idea of a mesh grid for the background located in space. I kept the grid and scratched the space idea. Instead, I made the grid glowing in neon and adopted a retro look. One of the reasons for that is the sheer weight of the program and the need for me to reduce its pixel density for it to run at a playable speed.  The retro approach was ideal with that context since it was able to look minimal while having its pixel rates lowered. Players might not even notice it that much. In all, I aimed for a simple and intuitive game to have players focus on performance and get a high score.

Linked on GitHub is the Beat-Beat map that's an abstract painting containing every single object in the game layered on top of each other.

Trivia: The name "ZINJAN-TAP" comes from the ancient zinjanthropus species.
